Essence of Linear Algebra: Publish Abstract Vector Spaces (#422)
3b1b/3Blue1Brown.com: public/content/lessons/2016/abstract-vector-spaces/index.mdx

    caption="The derivative can be expressed as a linear transformation: $L\left(\frac{1}{9} x^3-x\right)=\frac{1}{3} x^2-1$"
/>

Sometimes in this context of functions you'll hear these called “operators” instead of “transformations”, but the meaning is the same. A natural question you might ask is what it means for a transformation of functions to be “linear”.

### Standard definition of linear

The formal definition of linearity is relatively abstract and symbolically driven compared to the way we first talked about it in <LessonLink id="linear-transformations">chapter 3</LessonLink> of this series. The reward of the abstract definition is that we'll get something general enough to apply to functions as well as arrows.

A transformation is *linear* if it satisfies two properties: Additivity and scaling.

Additivity means that when you add any two vectors $\vec{\mathbf{v}}$ and $\vec{\mathbf{w}}$, then apply the transformation to their sum, you get the same result as if you add the transformed versions of $\vec{\mathbf{v}}$ and $\vec{\mathbf{w}}$.

<Figure
    image="./figures/standard-definition-of-linear/AdditivityProperty.light.svg" 
    width="520px"
/>

> The scaling property is that when you scale a vector $\vec{\mathbf{v}}$ by some number, then apply the transformation to the result, you get the same ultimate vector as if you scale the transformed version of $\vec{\mathbf{v}}$ by that same amount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second property says that when you scale a vector $\vec{\mathbf{v}}$ by some number $s$, then apply the transformation to the result, you get the same ultimate vector as if you scale the transformed version of $\vec{\mathbf{v}}$ by that same amount $s$.
```

<Figure
    image="./figures/the-matrix-of-a-derivative/AlternateNames.light.svg" 
/>

## Abstract vector space

To return to the question of what is a vector, the point is that there are other vector-ish things in math. As long as you're dealing with a set of objects where there's a reasonable notion of scaling and adding, whether that's a set of arrows in space, lists of numbers, functions, or some other crazy thing you choose to define, all the tools developed in linear algebra regarding vectors, linear transformation and all that stuff, should be able to apply. 

<Figure
    image="./figures/abstract-vector-spaces/VectorSpaces.light.svg"
    caption="Tools: Linear transformations, Null space, Eigenvectors, Dot products"
/>

Take a moment to imagine yourself as a mathematician developing the theory of linear algebra, you want all your definitions and discoveries to work for all of these vector-ish things in full generality.

<Figure
    image="./figures/abstract-vector-spaces/YouAsAMathematician.light.svg"
    width="520px"
/>

> These sets of vector-ish things, like arrows, lists of numbers and functions, are called “vector spaces”, and what you as the mathematician might do is say “Hey everyone, I don't want to think about all the different types of crazy vector spaces that y'all might come up with”, so you establish a list of rules that vector addition and scaling have to abide by in order for the results that you-the-mathematician discover to apply to someone's chosen definition of vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A set of vector-ish objects, like the set of all points in 3d space, the set of all lists of 4 numbers, the set of all finite polynomial functions, etc., is called a “vector space”. What you as the mathematician might do is say “Hey everyone, I don't want to think about all the different types of crazy vector spaces that y'all might come up with”, so you establish a list of rules that vector addition and scaling have to abide by in order for the results that you-the-mathematician discover to apply to someone's chosen definition of vectors.
```

    width="520px" 
/>

If, for example, someone defines some crazy type of vector space, like the set of all pi creatures with some definitions of adding and scaling pi creatures, these axioms are like a checklist of things they need to verify about those definitions before they can start applying the results of linear algebra.

<Figure
    image="./figures/abstract-vector-spaces/PiCreatureSpace.light.svg" 
/>

You as the mathematician never have to think about all the possible crazy vector spaces people might define; you just have to prove your results in terms of these axioms, so anyone whose definitions satisfy these axioms can happily apply your results. As a consequence, you'd tend to phrase all your results abstractly, which is to say only in terms of these axioms, rather than centering on a specific type of vector like arrows in space or functions.

For example, this is why every textbook you find will define linear transformations in terms of additivity and scaling, rather than talking about grid lines remaining parallel and evenly spaced, even though the latter is more intuitive and, at least in my view, more helpful for first-time learners.

> So the mathematician's answer to “what are vectors?” is to ignore the question. In the modern theory, the form they take doesn't really matter: arrows, lists of numbers, functions, pi creatures, really they can be *anything*, so long as there is some notion of adding and scaling vectors that follows these rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the mathematician's answer to “what are vectors?” is to ignore the question. In modern theory, the form they take doesn't matter: arrows, lists of numbers, functions, pi creatures, really they can be *anything*, so long as there is some notion of adding and scaling vectors that follows these rules.
```

It's like asking what the number 3 really is. Whenever it comes up concretely, it's in the context of some triplet of things. But in math it's treated as an abstraction of all possible triplets of things that lets you reason about all those triplets using a single idea.

<Figure
    image="./figures/abstract-vector-spaces/Triplets.light.svg" 
/>

> Some goes with vectors, which have many embodiments, but math abstracts them all into a single intangible notion of a vector space. As anyone reading this series knows, we think it's better to begin reasoning about vectors in a concrete, visualizable setting like 2d space with arrows rooted at the origin. But as you learn more linear algebra, know that these tools apply much more generally, and that this is the underlying reason why textbooks and lectures tend to be phrased, well, abstractly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's the same with vectors, which have many embodiments, but math abstracts them all into a single intangible notion of a vector space. As anyone reading this series knows, we think it's better to begin reasoning about vectors in a concrete, visualizable setting like 2d space with arrows rooted at the origin. But as you learn more linear algebra, know that these tools apply much more generally and that this is the underlying reason why textbooks and lectures tend to be phrased, well, abstractly.
```
